Ecowareness
Harlan Ellison

Once upon a time-something between 1,800,000,000 and 3,000,000,000 years ago-after 
the Earth had partially liquefied through loss of heat by radiation form the outside and 
partly by adiabatic expansion, its Mommy said gaey schluffen, the Earth had a cookie, 
spit up, and went to bed.  It slept soundly (save for a moment in 1755 when a Kraut 
named Kant made a whole lot of noise trying to figure out how the sun had been created) 
and didn't wake up till a Tuesday in 1963 at which time-about four in the morning, a 
shitty hour of the night except for suicides-it realized it was having a hard time breathing.
	"Kaff kaff," it said, wiping out half the Trobriand Islands and whatever lay east of 
Java.
	Casting about to discover what had wakened it, the Earth realized it was the All-
Night Movie on Channel 11, snippets of a Maria Montez film (Cobra Woman, 1944) 
interrupting an aging cruiser king hustling '35 Mercs with pep pills in their gas tanks and 
lines of weariness in their grilles.
	The Earth waited till dawn and began to look around.  Everywhere it looked the 
rivers smelled like grease traps in Army kitchens, the hills had been sheared away to 
provide clinging space for American Plywood cages with indoor plumbing, the watershed 
had been scorched flat, valleys had been paved over causing a most uncomfortable 
constriction of the Earth's breathing, the birds sang off-key and the bullfrogs sounded 
like Eddie Cantor, whom the Earth had never much cared for anyway.  And overhead, the 
light hurt the Earth's eyes.
	Everything looked gray and funky.
	"Boy," the Earth said, in it's rustic way, "I don't like this a whole lot," an so the 
earth began taking counter-action.
	The first was against a shaggy sophomore from Michigan State University who 
while parading around a Texaco station, carrying a placard that read STOP 
POLLUTION, ate a Power House bar and threw the wrapper in the gutter.
	The Earth opened and swallowed him.
	The next step was taken against fifty-six thousand Green Bay Packers fans as they 
crawled in imitation of a thousand-wheeled worm toward Lambeau Field, where their 
Cro-Magnon idols had waiting for them a sound trouncing at the hands and feet of the 
New Orleans Saints.  The Earth, choking on the exhaust fumes of the automobiles, 
caused a lava flow to erupt from a nearby hillside, boiling down on the lines of traffic, 
solidifying instantly into a marvelous free-form sculpture of thirty thousand hot-rock-
encased autos containing fifty-six thousand fried fans.
	The next step was taken against the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, gathered in the 
Hollywood Bowl before a single-throated horde of Jesus People.  They were singing 
Laura Nyro's "Save the Children" when the earth re-channeled seven underground rivers 
and turned the amphitheater into the thirteenth largest natural lake in the United States.  
	Then followed in madcap array, a series of forays against prominent individuals.  
Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago, speeding along the Lake Shore Drive, was inundated 
by seventy thousand tons of garbage from the burning dumps lining the scenic route; 
Ralph Nader's office in Washington, D.C., was struck by bolts of lightening for twenty 
minutes.  Barbra Streisand's town house in Manhattan suddenly vanished into a 
bottomless pit that yawned in the middle of the fashionable East Fifties.  Her C above 
high C was heard for hours.  Diminishing.
	Volcanoes destroyed the refineries, storage depots, administration buildings and 
Manhattan offices of Standard Oil of Ohio, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, 
California, Texas and Rhode Island, The Earth took along Rhode Island in its entirety, 
possibly out of pique.
	Eventually, when the mene mene tekel was written across the Grand Tetons in 
letters of burning forest fire, people began to get the idea.
	The automobile was banned. All assembly lines shut down.  Preservatives were 
eliminated from foods.  Seals were left alone.  A family of auk was discovered in New 
Zealand, doing rather nicely, thank you.  And Loch ness, the serpent finally came up and 
took a deep breath.
	And from this day to this, there has never again been a blotch of climatic smegma 
on the horizon, the Earth has settled down knowing the human race has learned its lesson 
and would never again take a ka-ka in its own nest, and that is why today the National 
Emphysema Society declared itself out of business
	Now isn't that a nice story.
	And fuck you, too.

